 The exponential pressure-overclosure behavior takes the form in Figure 113 in CCX manual (read pdf file). The parameters c_0 and p_0 define the kind of contact. p_0 is the contact pressure at zero distance, c_0 is the distance from the master surface at which the pressure is decreased to 1 % of p_0. The behavior in between is exponential. A large value of c_0 leads to soft contact, a small value to hard contact. Hard contact gives more accurate results in contact stress values, but soft contact is easier to get convergence.



The ADJUST parameter allows the user to move selected slave nodes at the start of the calculation (i.e. at the start of the first step) such that they make contact with the master surface. This is a change of coordinates, i.e. the geometry of the structure at the start of the calculation is changed. This can be helpful if due to inaccuracies in the modeling a slave node which should lie on the master surface at the start of the calculation actually does not. Especially in static calculations this can lead to a failure to detect contact in the first increment and large displacements (i.e. acceleration due to a failure to establish equilibrium). These large displacements may jeopardize convergence in any subsequent iteration. The ADJUST parameter can be used with a node set as argument or with a nonnegative real number. If a node set is selected, all nodes in the set are adjusted at the start of the calculation. If a real number is specified, all nodes for which the clearance is smaller or equal to this number are adjusted. Penetration is interpreted as a negative clearance and consequently all penetrating nodes are always adjusted, no matter how small the adjustment size (which must be nonnegative). Notice that large adjustments can lead to deteriorated element quality. The adjustments are done along a vector through the slave node and locally orthogonal to the master surface.

With the option *CLEARANCE a clearance can be defined between the slave and master surface of a contact pair. It only applies to face-to-face contact. If this option is active, the actual clearance or overlapping based on the distance between the integration point on the slave surface and its orthogonal projection on the master surface is overwritten by the value specified here. 

